[Image: People wear facemasks amid concerns over the spread of the Covid-19 novel coronavirus at a shopping mall in Bangkok on March 10, 2020. (AFP photo)]   People wear facemasks amid concerns over the spread of the Covid-19 novel coronavirus at a shopping mall in Bangkok on March 10, 2020. (AFP photo)
Thailand is preparing to restrict some aspects of daily life after the country’s biggest spike in coronavirus cases, further damaging one of Asia’s weakest economic outlooks.

The steps to be considered Monday include placing more curbs on foreign arrivals, cancelling events with big crowds and closing entertainment venues deemed risky for spreading the virus. Confirmed cases jumped by 32 on Sunday to 114, sparking fears of a bigger outbreak and some panic buying of groceries.

The Thai economy was already reeling from a collapse in the critical tourism sector amid lock-downs worldwide to slow the transmission of the disease known as Covid-19. A drought and delayed public spending are additional blows, leaving Thailand with the highest odds of recession among Asian nations -- at 30% -- after Japan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

“We may need a sudden stop of economic activity, like China, as it proved effective in tackling the spread,” said Somprawin Manprasert, chief economist at Bank of Ayudhya Plc, a Thai unit of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group. “With such disruption, the economy will likely contract this year.”

Stock Slump
Investors have taken fright, making the benchmark SET equity index emerging Asia’s worst performer with a drop of about 29% so far in 2020. The baht has tumbled almost 6% against the dollar over the same period, the second-largest decline in an Asian basket tracked by Bloomberg.

Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha’s ruling coalition last week rolled out stimulus steps designed to deliver a 400 billion baht economic boost, but their effectiveness is in doubt after previous packages fizzled.

The Bank of Thailand’s scope to follow in the footsteps of the US Federal Reserve by slashing borrowing costs to near zero, from the current 1%, may be limited by rules making 0.5% an effective lower bound.

Contingency Plan
Sunday’s abrupt jump in virus cases raised the specter of widespread community transmission of the kind that sickened thousands of people in nations such as China, South Korea, Iran and Italy.

Gen Prayut said Sunday that officials are mulling contingency options in case infections climb, such as setting up a hospital specifically for Covid-19 patients. Operators of riskier entertainment venues like pubs and sports stadiums could be ordered to close, he said.

“Today, health is the most important issue,” he told reporters in Bangkok.

Tourism accounts for about a fifth of the economy, but the government estimates arrivals may drop 24% from last year, to 30 million people.

Citigroup has chopped its Thai growth forecast to 0.2% for this year from 2.2%, while Bangkok-based brokerage Phatra Securities Plc predicts a 0.4% contraction.

“There’s going to be a big trade off,” Bank of Ayudhya’s Somprawin said. “Economic losses, for the control of the epidemic.”





Thai cabinet to consider new economic measures on Friday - Deputy PM
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Thailand's cabinet will on Friday consider a new package of economic measures aimed at mitigating the impact of coronavirus over the next six months, a deputy prime minister said.

A plan to issue a law to borrow funds will also be discussed, Somkid Jatusripitak told reporters on Thursday.

On Monday, the government said the new package would be worth more than 500 billion baht ($15.17 billion).

Thailand has recorded 1,875 cases of coronavirus infection and 15 deaths.






Asia Insight  Thailand's economic 'death by a thousand cuts' sows desperation 
Suicides rise as debts, drought and coronavirus hit the country hard 

MARWAAN MACAN-MARKAR, Asia regional correspondent   March 17, 2020 04:06 JST  
NAKHON PATHOM, Thailand -- Four Buddhist monks were chanting prayers -- the funeral rites for Thee Pieanmag, a 32-year-old building contractor who had died by suicide in his home.

A sprinkling of Thee's family and friends, all dressed in black, had gathered at Wat Maipinkleaw temple in Nakhon Pathom, west of Bangkok. Beside the coffin was a sepia-toned photo of Thee in a silver frame.

Weerapong Pieanmag was at a loss to understand his younger brother's suicide. "He showed no signs of trouble about his building business, even if it was becoming difficult to get building materials on credit," Weerapong said.

Thee's death was reported in Thai Rath, the country's largest Thai-language daily. The newspaper ran a story in early March, with grim details of his final hours and a headline stating that his suicide was because of "a huge debt."

His premature death was far from an isolated case. Stories of suicides related to financial hardship have become all too familiar in Thailand over the last year -- a dark measure of the costs as Southeast Asia's second-largest economy stutters.

In mid-February, a used-car dealer led his family of four in a mass suicide in Phitsanoulok, a northern province. A note left on his phone revealed he had business debts of over 10 million baht ($313,000).

Just after Thee's death, a 56-year-old businessman in the plastics trade from Samut Sakhon, south of Bangkok, died in another suicide attributed to money problems.

The kingdom has the highest suicide rate in Southeast Asia, at 14.4 per 100,000 people, according to the World Health Organization. Experts see little hope of improvement, at least when it comes to economy-related cases, as the country's middle and working classes will continue to face a storm of problems -- rising debts, weak consumer spending, factory closures, falling commodity prices and a harsh drought, to name a few.

And now, there is the impact of the new coronavirus spreading across the globe.

Massage shop workers wait for customers in a tourist area of Bangkok on March 6. The coronavirus pandemic is just one headwind hitting Thailand's small businesses.    © Reuters   
Already, in 2019, Thailand's economy grew just 2.4%, one of the slowest rates in the past five years, according to the National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC), which plans the country's economic strategy. This year's growth is expected to be even worse, at 1.5%, the Joint Standing Committee on Commerce, Industry and Banking predicts.

Insiders at Bangkok's financial institutions say the actual result could end up being only 0.5%, the lowest in a decade.

"What we are seeing now is slow attrition, a hollowing out of the economy for the small people," said Supavud Saicheau, a leading economist and adviser to Kiatnakin Phatra Financial Group, a Bangkok-based business consultancy. "It is economic death by a thousand cuts."

Two recent reports by the World Bank lay bare the roots of Thailand's economic malaise.

They trace the country's woeful numbers to the five years under the previous military junta -- a bitter pill for the generals who run the pro-military government elected last March. In 2014, the year of the coup, growth slumped to 1% due to the political turmoil.

  
From 2015 to 2018, the World Bank says the poverty rate in Thailand increased from 7.21% to 9.85%. The number of people living in poverty surged from 4.85 million to more than 6.7 million, out of a population of 69.04 million.

These troubling trends, the bank noted, did not stem from severe local or international financial crises, which had at least partly explained previous increases in poverty in 1998, 2000 and 2008.

Nationwide perceptions of well-being are low across Thailand, compared with its regional peers. "Only 39% of Thais in 2018 felt their standard of living was getting better," the World Bank said in early March. It was "the lowest when compared to other Southeast Asian countries surveyed during a similar period."

  
Poverty is widespread across all 77 Thai provinces, which "signals a reversal in trends from the past," the World Bank report argues. In the 2007-2013 period, "wages, farm incomes and remittances contributed to poverty reduction, but in the period [from] 2015-2017 they became sources of rising poverty."

The dire picture on the ground shreds the rosy image the government painted in 2017. Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak, the junta's economic czar and the current regime's key economic adviser, said that "nobody will be poor in Thailand by 2018."

Billions of baht worth of stimulus packages, subsidies and direct cash as relief measures -- euphemistically referred to as "helicopter money" -- have been rolled out. The junta's flagship welfare program, unveiled in 2017, initially disbursed 40 billion baht to 11 million poor people. That number increased to 14 million in the second year, as the regime geared up for the March 2019 general elections.

But stories of families trapped at the bottom of the economic ladder reveal the limits of the junta's and pro-military government's aid.

Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, front right, launched billions of baht worth of stimulus measures ahead of the general election in 2019, but the economy slowed.    © AP   
The need for more "helicopter money" could swell in Chonburi, a province southeast of Bangkok, where factories are shutting down due to plummeting exports. Thousands in the province have been pushed out of their jobs as a consequence of a strong Thai baht and a shifting global market for Thai manufactured goods. Now, there are long lines of former factory workers at the local offices of the labor department.

Many are turning to loan sharks to help make ends meet, adding to bulging household debts. Last year, the average debt load stood at 552,500 baht, up from 377,100 baht in 2009, according to the Bank of Thailand, the central bank. Total household debt is now equal to nearly 80% of gross domestic product, the second-highest ratio in Asia after South Korea.

"Our debt is over 2 million baht now, and we are struggling to pay back the 15% monthly interest to the loan shark," said Phatthiraphon Nonsiri. She lost her job in December, after the Japanese-owned auto parts factory where she worked shut down. The closure also affected her husband and her parents, all of whom were employed on the factory floor.

The sudden loss of income, the 29-year-old Phatthiraphon said, may condemn them to "live in the dark." They have failed to pay three months of electricity bills, and they fear their power supply will be cut. "We are stuck," she said, shaking her head.

Empty chairs are seen on a Phuket beach -- usually full of tourists -- on March 11.   © Reuters   
A similar gloom is descending on Bangkok, including the ubiquitous fashion malls many small and midsize enterprises rely on.

One mall in a northern Bangkok district used to be popular with office workers and students looking for bargains without brand names. Now the upper floors resemble a graveyard of empty stores. Nearly one-third are closed.

"Earlier, when business was good, we earned 200,000 baht a month, but last month sales were down to 75,000 baht," lamented a vendor who sold colorful Hawaiian shirts. "It is hard to stay open, because customers have declined, yet our costs are the same, like monthly rent of 31,400 baht. ... We may close soon."

The plight of Thai SMEs, a driving force for the economy, has not been lost on economists. "SMEs have higher risk, and as a result have more difficulty to get funding from the formal banking sector than large corporates," said Somprawin Manprasert, chief economist at the research division of Bank of Ayudhya.

"The shock from the coronavirus is draining demand, and I am worried, really worried about our economy."

But even before the coronavirus hit the tourism sector, Somprawin's researchers had raised the alarm about farm incomes drying up from the severe drought.

The Yom River is reduced to little more than puddles in this part of Phichit Province, north of Bangkok. If the drought persists much longer, farmers face significant losses.   © AP   
The dry spell began in mid-2019 and shows no signs of abating. If it continues through July, losses from the rice crop are estimated at 37.8 billion baht and 3.3 billion baht for cassava, according to a March 2020 study by the commercial bank. Rubber and sugar farmers are also hurting.

The drought could not have come at a worse time, the NESDC said last month. A parched rural heartland will not be able to reprise its old role as a shock absorber for a weak economy. In the past, rural areas offered work to families who had lost jobs in factories or small businesses and returned to their villages to harvest the fields.

The discontent among Thailand's economically dispossessed is growing. And the parliamentary opposition has seized the moment to accuse the pro-military regime of forsaking the majority in favor of its powerful financial allies, the Sino-Thai oligarchs, whose fortunes have soared after the 2014 putsch.

Mingkwan Saengsuwan, a former commerce minister, drew first blood, arguing that since the coup the total wealth of the richest 1% of Thais was "worth more than the total wealth of the 99% of Thais combined." He was driving home a point made during a no-confidence debate in the legislature in late February: that by 2017, Thailand had topped the list of countries with the worst wealth inequality, up from 11th place just two years earlier.

Financial analysts have taken note of the glaring economic divide and the pampered oligarchs benefiting from sweetheart deals. The junta turned to the oligarchs to help revive the economy after the coup, enticing them into partnerships by dangling carrots -- tax concessions and protection of their monopolies and duopolies. There is growing chatter within some quarters about Thailand becoming "a country owned by a few for a few," as one veteran foreign analyst in Bangkok put it.






[Image: The Bank of Thailand and Bank of Japan signs a bilateral local currency swap arrangement for three years. (Bangkok Post photo)]   The Bank of Thailand and Bank of Japan signs a bilateral local currency swap arrangement for three years. (Bangkok Post photo)
The central banks of Thailand and Japan on Tuesday signed a bilateral local currency swap arrangement (BSA) to enhance the financial stability of the two countries, the Bank of Thailand said in a statement.

The arrangement allows for the exchange of local currencies between the two central banks of up to 240 billion baht or 800 billion yen, enabling them to provide baht or yen liquidity to eligible financial institutions in support of their cross-border operations, it said.

The BSA is effective as of March 31, for a period of three years.






[Image: Centuries-old craft skills ensure high quality workmanship in the industries of the future]   Centuries-old craft skills ensure high quality workmanship in the industries of the future
When Anucha Meekiatichaikun, a Thailand-born, Paris-trained entrepreneur, returned to his homeland to set up a high-tech dental device business, he looked beyond the bright lights of Bangkok to the historic walled city of Chiang Mai.

It proved to be a profitable decision. In Chiang Mai, an ancient center of arts and culture, Mr. Anucha found craftsmen with skills passed down over centuries who quickly adapted to the intricacies of making digital titanium implant bars and other prosthetic devices.

The business, Hexa Ceram Dental Laboratory, thrived, attracting investment from Curaeos, a pan-European dentistry platform with one million customers. Today, it employs 800 people and exports to the European Union, Japan, the U.S. and Thailand’s regional neighbors. “Chiang Mai has the skilled workforce, international airport and everything you need for your personal life,” Mr. Anucha says.

In one sense, Mr. Anucha’s experience is no different from that of other Thailand investors. Southeast Asia’s second largest economy has long been among the developing world’s most welcoming destinations for international companies, accumulating more than $222 billion in foreign direct investment, according to United Nations data. One favored location: the Eastern Economic Corridor, a booming area near Bangkok that Thailand wants to make the innovation hub of Asia.

Where Mr. Anucha’s investment stands out is his decision to seize opportunities offered by Thailand’s many diverse regional investment hubs. Chiang Mai and cities such as Khon Kaen and Songkhla are vibrant provincial capitals offering well-respected universities, innovation-focused science parks and increasing connectivity to nearby international markets such as China, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam.

Foreign enterprises that have already discovered the advantages of regional Thailand range from long-established multinationals to the new breed of so-called “digital nomads” – foreign online entrepreneurs who leverage Thailand’s fast internet and lower overheads to start international businesses while working in one of the world’s most beautiful environments.

Indeed, the NomaList website ranks Chiang Mai in the top 10 out of more than 800 nomad-friendly cities worldwide, scoring it highly for internet speed, cost of living and safety. “Costs here are very low,” says California-born Nati Sang, a former Silicon Valley systems engineer who now runs the Chiang Mai Makerspace, a venue for nomads and local startups to develop innovative products ranging from air quality sensors to luxury chocolates. “Also, this is a very chilled place that naturally makes you happy. People are more creative when they are happy.”

Creativity is also a feature of the Northern Science Park. Linked to Chiang Mai University, which is ranked among the world’s top 650 by UK-based QS University Rankings, the park seeks to be a Southeast Asian leader in business innovation, incubating startups and acting as a research resource for established small and medium sized enterprises.

Some 700 km north of Bangkok, yet barely 1 hour away by plane, Chiang Mai has proved equally welcoming to larger companies. East West Seed, a technology-focused agribusiness founded in The Netherlands and now spanning 60 countries has made its global research and development headquarters there. “We are not selling seeds, we are selling know-how,” says East West Seed’s Vice President for R&D, Simon Jan de Hoop, who works closely on research projects with another local public university, Maejo. “When it comes to research, we have found that Thailand is very good at public-private partnerships.”