BEIJING — Global stock markets sank Wednesday in a third day of wild price swings after President Donald Trump and other world leaders promised aid to get their economies through the coronavirus outbreak.

European markets were down about 5 percent after broad losses across Asia, while trading in Wall Street futures was suspended once again as losses hit the maximum 5 percent limit.

The White House proposal could approach $1 trillion in spending to ward off the pressure of business closures to contain the virus. The Federal Reserve has announced more measures to keep financial markets operating. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Trump wants to send checks to Americans in the next two weeks to help support them while more parts of the economy come closer to shutting down.

The moves add to efforts from governments around the world that include trillions of dollars worth of loans for businesses, tax deferrals, mortgage relief and grants. Trump’s proposal would include $250 billion for small businesses and $50 billion for airlines.

That is a good start but investors need to see the number of infections slow before markets can find a bottom, analysts said. The number of new cases reported in China, where the virus emerged in December, is declining but infections in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are increasing.

There are “green shoots of risk appetite emerging, and some further concerning aspects,” Chris Weston of Pepperstone Group said in a report. “I am not going to call a bottom in the risk story by any means.”

The FTSE 100 in London dropped 5.1 percent to 5,024 and Frankfurt’s DAX skidded 5.2 percent to 8,470. France’s CAC 40 shed 5.6 percent to 3,769.






Economic Watch: China's financial opening runs at full tilt despite the bite of epidemic
Source: Xinhua| 2020-04-01 22:20:54|Editor: huaxia
Video Player Close 
by Xinhua writers Wang Siyuan and Zhou Qianxian

BEIJING, April 1 (Xinhua) -- China's financial opening has been firm and steady despite the growing financial risks amid the global outbreak of the novel coronavirus.

On Wednesday, foreign ownership caps on securities firms were scrapped, which has inspired many foreign companies to seek to set up wholly owned subsidiaries.

Todd Leland, co-president of Goldman Sachs in the Asia Pacific ex-Japan called this a significant milestone in the evolution of the business in China, expecting the policy to help the company move toward 100 percent ownership at the earliest opportunity.

Looking back, China raised the cap on foreign ownership of securities operations to 51 percent in 2018. Until then, international banks had been allowed only minority stakes in their Chinese joint ventures.

During the Summer Davos Forum last year, China announced it would bring forward the timeline of removing foreign ownership limits in foreign-invested securities companies, fund management firms and futures companies to 2020, one year ahead of the original schedule.

The top securities watchdog CSRC said it will continue to firmly implement the country's overall arrangement on opening up, actively advance the opening up of China's capital market, and approve the establishment of foreign-invested securities companies or the change of actual controllers of securities companies in accordance with the law.

As of February, China saw 15 foreign-owned securities firms having been established and 18 joint-venture securities firms queuing up for approval, CSRC data showed.

Chen Yulu, vice governor of the People's Bank of China recently noted the epidemic outbreak has not affected the implementation of China's financial opening policies, and the access of foreign-funded institutions together with the law revision work are still in process.

Under the influence of the epidemic, broader stock sell-offs and a massive oil price tumble roiled the global financial market in March, during which China's financial market was one of the least affected.

Higher yields for Chinese bonds and low valuations of Chinese shares are propellers for China's bond and equity market, said Lu Zhengwei, chief economist at Industrial Bank, with the warning of possible risks if foreign capital floods into the domestic market.

Opening up the financial sector did not mean increasing risks because China's systemic risk assessment and the financial supervision system have been continuously improved to forestall financial risks, Chen noted.

A package of opening-up policies and measures to attract capital inflows have also been introduced in recent years. China scrapped investment quota limits for Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors and Renminbi Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors, which will make it more convenient for foreign investors to participate in the domestic financial market.

For the stock market, overseas investors are encouraged to invest in the STAR market. The Shanghai-London Stock Connect program opened for trading in June 2019 as another channel for foreign capital inflow.

Meanwhile, China's stocks and bonds have been included in main global indexes, such as the MSCI, FTSE Russell, S&P Dow Jones and Bloomberg Barclays index, and their weights are steadily increasing.

China's economic resilience, large market scale and solid measures to further open up attract more and more overseas investors amid the global economic fluctuations, said Yu Xiuyuan, an investment officer at UBS Wealth Management.






[Image: A man wearing a face mask walks outside office buildings in Beijing on April 1, 2020.]   A man wearing a face mask walks outside office buildings in Beijing on April 1, 2020. PHOTO: AFP 
Published
11 hours ago

 
BEIJING (BLOOMBERG) - China's authorities are proving surprisingly reserved when it comes to unleashing support measures for its ailing economy, and investors aren't liking the reticence.

The country's financial markets are starting to lag global peers, after initially outperforming on optimism officials would take more muscular stimulus. The yuan has fallen for seven days versus a basket of 24 trading partner currencies, while the CSI 300 Index of shares trailed MSCI's global benchmark by the most since 2015 last week.

A slew of new policies this week failed to reverse the tide. Stocks and bonds fell on Monday (March 30) after the central bank cut short-term rates by the most since 2015. The yuan weakened on Wednesday, despite officials calling for further measures including more cash injections and additional bond sales to bolster local governments' coffers.

Contrast that with discussions in the US for a fourth round of economic stimulus, as well as the Federal Reserve's decision to slash rates to zero and pump trillions of dollars into the financial system. European governments have put aside their fiscal-deficit targets to ramp up spending, while Japan's ruling party this week proposed the country's biggest-ever stimulus package.

"The policy stance during the virus outbreak has given many investors a reality check," said Yu Yingbo, fund manager at Shenzhen Qianhai United Fortune Fund Management Co. "For those who are still waiting for Beijing to roll out the big guns - day by day they'll wait in vain."

China's relatively cautious programme of easing speaks to the government's concerns over price stability and the country's large pile of debt. That's even as the economy is forecast to grow at the slowest pace since 1976 this year. The People's Bank of China said on Monday it still has plenty of room to adjust monetary policy as needed and "doesn't use its bullets all at once."

While measures deployed by Beijing underscored its prudent approach to stimulus, investors had expected that stance to shift after top leaders pledged to be more "proactive" in using fiscal policy and exercise "more flexibility" in monetary easing. When economic data showed a worse-than-expected contraction in February, traders snapped up stocks on expectations more support would follow. The CSI 300 rallied 5 per cent that week, the most in a year.

To be sure, efforts elsewhere to support local economies were also initially met with investor skepticism. US stocks tumbled into a bear market last month on concern that emergency measures would fall short. In the UK, where interest rates were cut to a record low, stocks suffered their worst quarter since 1987.

But while markets around the world have stabilized in the past week, China's stocks and the yuan continue to lose momentum. Average daily turnover in local equities, which hovered around 1 trillion yuan (S$202 billion) for about four weeks, is now half that amount. The CSI 300 rose 1.6 per cent last week, compared with an almost 10 per cent rally in the MSCI All-Country World Index.






Hobbled by Covid-19, China’s Wanda faces US$5.7b debt bill
Corporate News
Wednesday, 04 Mar 2020

6:58 PM MYT
The empire founded by billionaire Wang Jianlin, who once aspired to beat Walt Disney Co. in entertainment, needs to refinance or pay about 39.8 billion yuan ($5.7 billion) of its bonds this year. That is almost 36% of its total outstanding notes, the highest proportion of total bonds due among the nation’s top 25 firms, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

HONG KONG: Dalian Wanda Group Co., the Chinese conglomerate that borrowed billions of dollars to fund an acquisition binge, is facing a double whammy this year: a wall of maturing debt and a deadly virus that has hampered its operations.

The empire founded by billionaire Wang Jianlin, who once aspired to beat Walt Disney Co. in entertainment, needs to refinance or pay about 39.8 billion yuan ($5.7 billion) of its bonds this year. That is almost 36% of its total outstanding notes, the highest proportion of total bonds due among the nation’s top 25 firms, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

The payment pressure comes at a time when the outbreak of the new coronavirus, which has killed more than 3,100 people, is striking at the heart of the group’s businesses by deterring shopping and travel. The company has shut down malls, theme parks and cinemas to comply with epidemic-control measures, and is waiving or delaying rents for tenants.

Wanda is among the last few of China’s acquisitive non-state groups that have pared holdings over the past few years after snapping up assets from Hollywood studios, hotels, Manhattan buildings to European football clubs. Last week, the government started taking charge of debt-laden HNA Group Co. after the contagion hurt the once-acquisitive firm’s ability to meet financial obligations.

"Wanda’s 2020 outlook wasn’t great before the coronavirus outbreak devastated the company’s core markets, and the company will almost certainly require refinancing as the year progresses, ” said Brock Silvers, managing director at Adamas Asset Management in Hong Kong.

While this may cause some tumult within the group, tycoon Wang may manage to avert any potential crisis with refinancing options, Silvers added. Still, the looming debt bill underscores the challenges many of China’s businesses are confronting as the $14 trillion economy sputters. For Wanda, the timing couldn’t be worse.






China revises up GDP growth for 2014-2018, on track to double economy
Economy
Monday, 20 Jan 2020

4:14 PM MYT
People walk outside Beijing Railway Station during the annual Spring Festival travel rush ahead of the Chinese Lunar New Year, in Beijing, China January 20, 2020. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins

BEIJING: China has revised up its economic growth by 0.1 percentage points each year between 2014 and 2018, the National Bureau of Statistics said, making it easier for Beijing to fulfil its goal of doubling the size of the economy by 2020 from 2010.

Annual gross domestic product (GDP) growth for 2014-2018 has been raised to 7.4%, 7.0%, 6.8%, 6.9% and 6.7% from 7.3%, 6.9%, 6.7%, 6.8% and 6.6% previously, the latest data from the statistical bureau showed on Saturday.

Based on the revised figures, real GDP growth of at least 5.6% in 2020 would be enough for achieving Beijing's target to double GDP in the decade to 2020, according to Reuters calculations, in line with analysts' estimates.

"We believe this revision provides Beijing with some flexibility in setting its 2020 growth target and precludes the need to introduce another round of massive stimulus that could rapidly increase systemic risks," said Nomura analysts in a note on Monday.

Policy sources have told Reuters that Beijing plans to set a lower growth target of around 6% this year from last year's 6-6.5%, relying on increased infrastructure spending to ward off a sharper slowdown. Key targets are due to be announced in March.

China's economic growth cooled to 6.1% in 2019, its weakest in nearly 30 years amid a bruising trade war with the United States, and more stimulus is expected this year as Beijing tries to boost sluggish investment and demand.

Many China observers generally see this year as crucial for the ruling Communist Party to fulfil its goal of doubling gross domestic product (GDP) and incomes in the decade to 2020, and turning China into a "moderately prosperous" nation. - Reuters



