Hong Kong fell deeper into recession at end of 2019
Continuing protests, US-China trade war and now coronavirus outbreak further cloud Hong Kong's economic outlook.

03 Feb 2020 09:54 GMT
[Image: Hong Kong recorded a contraction for yet another quarter at the end of 2019 as economic activity remained stifled by protests and trade concerns [File: Ng Han Guan/AP]]  
Hong Kong recorded a contraction for yet another quarter at the end of 2019 as economic activity remained stifled by protests and trade concerns [File: Ng Han Guan/AP]
The Hong Kong economy's first recession in 10 years deepened in the fourth quarter of last year weighed down by often violent anti-government protests and the protracted trade war between the United States and China, advanced estimates showed on Monday.

The economy shrank by a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent between October and December from the previous quarter, versus a revised 3 percent contraction from July to September.

More:
Hong Kong braces for spread of coronavirus
Looking to the stars, Hong Kong fortune-tellers see only clouds
Tea and tear gas: Hong Kong's shops on the economic front lines
On an annual basis, Hong Kong's economy shrank by 2.9 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with a revised 2.8 percent contraction in the third quarter.

For the whole of 2019, real gross domestic product (GDP) - the sum of all finished goods and services produced in a territory and adjusted for inflation - contracted by 1.2 percent, the first annual decline since 2009.

"Local social incidents with violence during the quarter took a further heavy toll on economic sentiment as well as consumption- and tourism-related activities," a government spokesperson said in a statement.

Months of unrest in Hong Kong last year plunged the financial and trading hub into its worst crisis since it reverted from British to Chinese rule in 1997.

Despite a narrower year-on-year decline in Hong Kong's total exports of goods in the fourth quarter, exports of services plunged by 25 percent due to a severe setback in inbound tourism, the estimates showed.

Analysts predict an even worse first quarter in 2020, as measures to restrict cross-border mobility to fight the spread of a new coronavirus, which originated in mainland China, deal a further blow to tourism, retail and other business.

Given the developing nature of the coronavirus outbreak in mainland China and elsewhere, forecasting the effect on Hong Kong is especially difficult. But combining that with long-standing issues such as the expensive property market produces one of the more difficult outlooks for Hong Kong since the 1997 handover.

"This is really the last nail in the coffin of the Hong Kong economy," Alicia Garcia Herrero, chief Asia Pacific economist at Natixis SA, told Bloomberg about the virus's impact before the data was released. "This time around even the financial sector may be affected, and I doubt protests will calm down." 

Drawing on experience from the 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) epidemic in the city, Aries Wong, lecturer at Hong Kong Baptist University's School of Business, estimates visitor arrivals from mainland China could drop by an additional 10 to 20 percentage points  , and annual economic growth could be cut by half a percentage point   if the outbreak subsides by July - increasing to 1 percentage point   if it continues for the whole year.

"Surely the virus is going to add a bit more pressure on tourism and retail," Wong told Bloomberg.

SOURCE: News agencies 
https://www.aljazeera.com/ajimpact/hong-kong-fell-deeper-recession-2019-200203084830989.html






HONG KONG, CHINA - Media OutReach  - 2 April 2020 - The 11th APAC Small Business Survey conducted by CPA Australia reveals that 44 per cent of small businesses in Hong Kong had sought external funds for survival in 2019, while 25 per cent of respondents experienced difficulties in paying debts last year and 29 per cent expected the difficulty to continue. This suggests that nearly three in ten of small businesses in Hong Kong 

expect to have immediate and severe liquidity issues in 2020 even before the COVID-19 pandemic.

Only 37 per cent of surveyed small businesses in Hong Kong reported that they grew in the past 12 months, the lowest on record and down by 19 per cent from 2018. However, 61 per cent of small businesses had sought external funds with 44 per cent for survival, which is the only surveyed market where the percentage of businesses that required external finance was higher than the percentage of businesses that reported growing.

Mr. Janssen Chan, CPA Australia's Deputy Divisional President 2020 and Chairperson of SME Committee in Greater China indicated that according to the survey findings the challenges for Hong Kong small businesses were very difficult in 2019, "We have seen that the businesses in Hong Kong had experienced a lot of challenges last year, but the situation was worse than I expected. 25 per cent of respondents experienced difficulty 

in paying debts in 2019, while 29 per cent expected these difficult circumstances to continue in 2020. This implies nearly three in ten of Hong Kong small businesses expect to have cashflow problems this year. In addition, since the COVID-19 outbreak, we foresee a higher percentage of small businesses may collapse in the next 3 to 6 months as a result of a sharp decline in business turnover and the lack of positive cash flow to stay afloat."






(RTTNews) - The Hong Kong stock market has alternated between positive and negative finishes through the last four trading days since the end of the two-day winning streak in which it had accelerated almost 1,850 points or 8.3 percent. The Hang Seng Index now rests just above the 23,600-point plateau although investors figure to lock in gains on Wednesday.

The global forecast for the Asian markets continues to be volatile, this time to the downside on continuing coronavirus concerns. The European markets were up and the U.S. bourses were down and the Asian markets figure to follow the latter lead.

The Hang Seng finished sharply higher on Tuesday following gains from the properties, oil and insurance companies, financials and casinos.

For the day, the index soared 428.37 points or 1.85 percent to finish at 23,603.48 after trading between 23,238.04 and 23,627.53.

Among the actives, Sino Land skyrocketed 7.42 percent, while CNOOC surged 7.40 percent, Hong Kong & China Gas soared 5.45 percent, CSPC Pharmaceutical plummeted 4.32 percent, CITIC spiked 3.97 percent, China Petroleum and Chemical (Sinopec) accelerated 3.80 percent, China Mobile gathered 3,13 percent, WH Group perked 2.98 percent, AIA Group advanced 2.93 percent, New World Development added 2.33 percent, China Mengniu Dairy gained 1.89 percent, Galaxy Entertainment rose 1.85 percent, China Life Insurance increased 1.74 percent, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China collected 1.72 percent, BOC Hong Kong was up 1.66 percent, Sands China added 1.43 percent, Ping An Insurance gained 0.99 percent and Tencent Holdings rose 0.96 percent.

The lead from Wall Street is negative as stocks opened lower on Tuesday and saw the losses accelerate as the day progressed, condemning the Dow and S&P to their worst first quarters ever.

The Dow shed 410.32 points or 1.84 percent to finish at 21,917.16, while the NASDAQ fell 74.05 points or 0.95 percent to 7,700.10 and the S&P 500 lost 42.06 points or 1.60 percent to 2,584.59.

The pullback on Wall Street reflected lingering concerns about the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic, as New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said confirmed cases in his state jumped to more than 75,000 overnight.

In economic news, reports on consumer confidence and Chicago-area business activity showed deterioration in March but still came in above estimates. An unexpected expansion in Chinese manufacturing activity in March also helped to alleviate worries.

Some optimism was generated by reports that U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin have agreed to talks aimed at addressing volatility in the global oil markets.

Crude oil prices moved higher on Tuesday, rising after a sharp setback a day earlier that sent futures crashing to their lowest close in 18 years. West Texas Intermediate Crude oil futures for May ended up $0.39 or 1.9 percent at $20.48 a barrel.

The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.






[Image: Hong Kong]  
The Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong has increased the subsidies offered to local business’ technology investments by 50 percent.

The subsidies are paid under the “Technology Voucher Programme (TVP), a scheme that sees the government send cash to local businesses that use tech to improve their operations.

The region’s government used to offer HK$400,000 (US$51,000, £42,000). As of today, it offers $HK600,000 (US$75,000, £62,500). The new sum can also be applied across six projects, up from the previous four.

Unlisted companies not already funded by government are eligible for the scheme.

Grants can pay for consultancy – provided they’re local – and for buying or renting custom kit and software. Off-the-shelf software and hardware can also be covered, but applicants are politely asked to keep those components under half of a project’s cost.

The enhanced scheme was announced in Hong Kong’s February 2020 budget, when Financial Secretary Paul MP Chan billed its purpose as: “To promote the wider use of technological services and solutions among local enterprises for increasing their productivity or upgrading and transforming business processes.”

While Hong Kong’s 20/21 budget included measures to combat coronavirus, the TVP increase was included as a way to diversify the former colony’s economy rather than as a virus-specific stimulus.





Hong Kong’s jobless rate is set to surge to a nine-year high because of the dim global economic outlook triggered by the coronavirus pandemic, with the catering, retail, hotel and construction sectors bearing the brunt, the city’s financial secretary has warned.

Paul Chan Mo-po also urged the opposition parties to stop filibustering and pass the government’s economy-boosting measures in the legislature without delay.

Chan sounded the warning on his official blog on Sunday, with the authorities to announce the latest jobless rate on Tuesday.

“The global economic volatility has exerted further pressure on the Hong Kong economy,” Chan wrote. “It can be expected that the unemployment rate will deteriorate more rapidly. The hard-hit sectors will be catering, retail, hotels and construction.”

Hong Kong’s jobless rate is set to surge to a nine-year high because of the dim global economic outlook triggered by the coronavirus pandemic, with the catering, retail, hotel and construction sectors bearing the brunt, the city’s financial secretary has warned.

Paul Chan Mo-po also urged the opposition parties to stop filibustering and pass the government’s economy-boosting measures in the legislature without delay.

Chan sounded the warning on his official blog on Sunday, with the authorities to announce the latest jobless rate on Tuesday.

“The global economic volatility has exerted further pressure on the Hong Kong economy,” Chan wrote. “It can be expected that the unemployment rate will deteriorate more rapidly. The hard-hit sectors will be catering, retail, hotels and construction.

He said many of the businesses had scaled back or suspended operations, or asked staff to take no-pay leave.

“While these will push up unemployment and underemployment rates, employees’ incomes will also shrink and in turn exert greater pressure on the job market,” Chan said.

“The latest unemployment rate to be announced this week will climb to about a nine-year high.”

Hong Kong’s jobless rate rose to 3.4 per cent in January, the highest in more than three years. The rate for the same month nine years ago was 3.8 per cent. It fell gradually to 3.5 per cent in July 2011 and 3.3 per cent in December that year.

The unemployment rate reached an all-time high of 8.5 per cent in June 2003, as Hong Kong was battered by the severe acute respiratory syndrome outbreak.

Chan added that one of the ways to boost the economy and employment was to increase public spending and he said the government had a series of infrastructure projects ready for launch once the legislature approved funding requests.


