Indonesia is bracing for the spillover effect of a global recession as policymakers roll out crisis protocols for the worst-case scenarios concerning GDP and the rupiah exchange rate while COVID-19 is hitting businesses and households hard.

A government regulation in lieu of law (Perppu) issued on Tuesday covers a range of crisis protocols that include allowing Bank Indonesia (BI) to throw a lifeline to the state budget through direct government bond purchases and to banks via liquidity support.

Indonesia’s economy is expected to grow by 2.3 percent this year under the baseline scenario, which would be the lowest rate since 1999, or contract by 0.4 percent in the worst-case scenario, in the face of higher global recession risks, according to Finance Minister Sri Muyani Indrawati. The rupiah may hover between Rp 17,500 and Rp 20,000 per US dollar under the worst-case scenario, a historic low even weaker than after the 1998 financial crisis.

President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo has announced plans to spend Rp 405.1 trillion on health care, social safety nets and business recovery programs. The new regulation, Perppu No. 1/2020, allows the budget deficit to widen beyond the previous legal limit of 3 percent of the gross domestic product (GDP).

“No actions, including decisions made based on this Perppu, may be subject to lawsuits that could be filed at a state administrative court,” reads the Perppu on state finance and financial system stability to contain the COVID-19 pandemic.

Read also: Indonesia’s COVID-19 stimulus playbook explained 

Sri Mulyani said the stipulation was necessary so that authorities were legally protected to take “extraordinary measures in protecting the economy”. The Perppu was issued as Indonesia declared a public health emergency that involves imposing large-scale social restrictions.

“We are very aware that we must be very careful to avoid moral hazard,” said Sri Mulyani, who was among decision makers in a controversial 2008 bailout on failed Bank Century. “We will formulate a safeguard, so that policymakers that are taking measures to improve public health and the economy cannot be criminalized because of the acts of others.”

The COVID-19 crisis playbook bears eerie resemblance to the 1998 crisis, during which the central bank provided massive liquidity support to commercial banks to survive the monetary crisis, but most of the money was eventually embezzled.

The government’s economic recession scenario would mean the first GDP contraction since the 1998 crisis, which saw the domestic economy contract by 13.1 percent.

However, three economists contacted by The Jakarta Post agreed that Indonesia’s current state was “very different” from that in 1998. The common denominator among the economists is that existing Indonesian companies have stronger fundamentals than those in the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis.







Bareksa, an online mutual fund marketplace, has reported an increase in its assets under management (AUM) by 20 percent despite plunging Indonesian stocks as a result of COVID-19 pandemic fears.

The company had accumulated more than Rp 2 trillion (US$132.6 million) in AUM by March 15, a 20 percent increase from December 2019. The figure grew by 12 percent from February, at a time when the Jakarta Composite Index (JCI) plummeted 17 percent.

The AUM growth was supported by an increase in mutual-fund products and the government’s retail sharia bonds purchased over the last month, among other things. The company also reported an increase in customers to 800,000 by March 15.

“This phenomenon shows financial technology’s potential to stabilize the market during an upheaval in Indonesia’s financial sector,” Bareksa CEO Karaniya Dharmasaputra said in a statement on Monday.

Indonesian stocks continued their steep fall on Tuesday, crashing to a level unseen since 2015, following the Dow Jones’ worst decline since Black Monday in 1987. The JCI closed the session 4.99 percent lower at 4,456.75 after tripping a circuit breaker around an hour before the session concluded.






Investors around the world dumped riskier assets amid fears that the COVID-19 pandemic will weaken global economic growth. Indonesia reported 172 confirmed cases and five deaths from the pneumonia-like illness on Tuesday amid the government’s call on all citizens to implement social distancing to contain the virus spread.

Bareksa gave an assurance that its business was still operating normally even though the company implemented a remote working policy for its employees in line with the government’s advice.

“Customers can still run transactions through our website and Bareksa’s mobile application,” the statement reads. (mpr)






Retail investors have found themselves facing two difficult decisions amid a volatile Indonesian stock market that has wiped out trillions of rupiah in less than three months: to buy more shares or not.

Arief Hendarwan, a 28-year-old employee in Jakarta, admitted that he had been holding off from buying more stock for the past month as the Jakarta Composite Index (JCI) plummeted deep into the red.

“I’ve pulled out of buying more stocks to keep myself from losing more money because the share prices are tanking due to the fear of the coronavirus outbreak,” he told The Jakarta Post.

Read also: Indonesia prepares additional measures to stabilize markets, halt tax payments amid virus risks 

Arief did not stop there. He admitted that he was too affected by the panicked atmosphere spreading among market players, prompting him to sell stocks in his portfolio to seek cover from further losses.

However, the JCI rebounded after the US Federal Reserve delivered an emergency 50-basis-points rate cut on March 3, blowing a soothing wind for Arief to calm himself down.

“I’m still in a wait-and-see mode as I observe the latest virus developments and until the situation improves,” he said, adding that he believed the market rout would remain until the virus could eventually be contained.

The Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) data showed that its main gauge, the JCI, fell 17.12 percent so far this year with foreign investors dumping out Rp 7.12 trillion (US$497.37 million) worth of stocks more than they bought. The local bourse’ market capitalization has dropped to Rp 6 quadrillion from Rp 7.26 quadrillion at the end of last year.

The index rebounded 1.64 percent to 5,220.83 on Tuesday, after crashing 6.58 percent in the previous session. Stocks of private-owned Bank Central Asia (BCA) and state-owned Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and Bank Mandiri became the index movers.

Read also: Bourse announces new trading suspension policy on brink of bear market 

The uncertainties stemmed from the COVID-19 spread around the globe that has hit stock markets worldwide from New York and London to Shanghai and Tokyo. The pneumonia-like illness infected more than 114,000 people globally, including 19 in Indonesia, and killed around 4,000, disrupting business activity in various countries, including economic giants China, Japan and Germany.

Fathia Haq, a 29-year-old expectant mother, stood on the opposite side of Arief as she planned to use the less-than-favorable market conditions to her advantage: accumulating cheaper stocks into her portfolio. She, however, did that with a careful and calculated strategy.

“I only buy stocks of companies that produce products that I know and have good fundamentals,” the Bali-based writer told the Post, referring to the companies’ financial state and profitability ratios.

Fathia, who planned to use the gains from her investment to pay for her unborn child’s school tuition fee, said the fundamental conditions had become the most important thing for her to pick which stocks are worth to be included into her portfolio.

Although she sometimes felt a pinch of worry from the stocks sharp decline, she tried to remind herself that buying stocks during a rout could help her gain big profits in the next five to seven years, enough to pay for the school tuition fee.

“I try not to panic and just think of the stock market is having a big sale right now,” she said.

The JCI gained almost two folds in its value in the last 10 years with the number of retail investors surging forward at 30 percent to 1.1 million people last year, the bourse data showed.

Domestic investors are the biggest traders at the local bourse so far this year with a 60 percent contribution versus foreign investors.






The central bank and market players are expecting the worst in March as uncertainties surrounding the coronavirus drive volatility in stocks, bonds and foreign exchange markets.

Bank Indonesia (BI) Governor Perry Warjiyo said on Friday that he expected the coronavirus crisis to peak in February and March, before a recovery in the second quarter. The central bank pumped Rp 87 trillion (US$6.2 billion) into the domestic bond market in February to prop up prices and the value of the rupiah as foreign funds sold US$2.4 billion worth of bonds and stocks.

“We project the recovery will take about six months starting in mid-March or April,” Perry said. BI will continue to intervene to stabilize the bond market and the rupiah through the spot market, the domestic non-deliverable forward (NDF) market and by buying government bonds (SBN) in the secondary market, the governor added.











