Korea plans massive W50tr injection to resuscitate virus-hit economy
South Korea  
Thursday, 19 Mar 2020

4:37 PM MYT
President Moon Jae-in speaks at the economy meeting on Thursday. Yonhap

SEOUL, March 19 (The Korea Herald/ANN) -- South Korea is planning a series of measures amounting to W50tr to save its virus-hit economy.

Deadlines on corporate loans will be extended, and a fund to stabilize the country’s stock markets will be established as part of Seoul’s efforts to deal with the economic impact of the COVID-19 outbreak.

Under the measures, the deadline for loans taken out by small and medium-sized enterprises and small merchants will be extended by more than six months. In addition, debtors will also be given a six-month extension on paying interest payments.

According to the government, the measures -- including 1.5 percent low-interest loans for small businesses -- amount to a total of 50 trillion won.

According to the presidential office and financial authorities, these and other measures were decided at the first emergency economy conference held Thursday.

“As the first measure to resolve financial uncertainties, and to prevent bankruptcies of SMEs, merchants and the self-employed, an emergency financial measures worth 50 trillion won is decided, ” President Moon Jae-in said at the first emergency economy meeting held Thursday.

He said that all resources available to the government have been mobilized for the measures, and that the measures are focused on easing liquidity problems experienced by smaller companies and small merchants.

At the meeting, Moon once again stressed the importance of the speed with which government aid is rolled out, urging officials to take steps to ease regulations to facilitate the injection of funds into the market.

Following the meeting, the financial authorities announced a number of measures including plans for establishing funds to stabilize the markets.

“In order so that excessive anxiety in the stock market does not contract the real economy, a fund for stabilizing the financial markets raised by the financial industry will be established, ” Minister of Economy and Finance Hong Nam-ki said.

He said that the fund will be in place until the markets recover, and that it will be used to in ways that promotes stabilization of the markets.

Hong also said that a separate fund with the aim of stabilizing the bond market will also be set up. According to Hong, the bond market stabilization fund will be established with input from banks, security and insurance companies.

Regarding the possibility of another supplementary budget, Hong said that the matter will be discussed in the process of discussing responses to the COVID-19 outbreak’s economic fallout.






S. Korea: Global economy to show U-shaped recovery over COVID-19 outbreak
South Korea  
Friday, 20 Mar 2020

4:02 PM MYT
Red Cross workers preparing emergency relief kits packed with basic necessities like instant food for delivery to impoverished people experiencing difficulties amid the spread of the coronavirus at a facility of the Korean National Red Cross in Seoul, South Korea, on Friday (March 20). - AP

SEOUL: The global economy is expected to show a U-shaped recovery for the next two years as the Covid-19 outbreak may drive the world economy into a slowdown this year before bouncing back next year, South Korean Deputy Prime Minister for economic affairs Hong Nam-ki said on Friday (March 20).

Hong, also the minister of Economy and Finance, told a press briefing with foreign correspondents in Seoul that the most probable scenario could be the global economic recovery next year after suffering difficulties this year from the Covid-19 outbreak.

In the initial phase of the outbreak, the world economy had been forecast to achieve a U-shaped recovery by the end of this year, Hong said.

Since the declaration of the global pandemic, outlooks moved to the U-shaped rebound for the next two years, he noted, based on forecasts from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and other economic think tanks.

"A negative growth (of the South Korean economy) cannot be ruled out for the first quarter of this year," said Hong who emphasized the government's efforts to prop up the export-driven economy with an expansionary fiscal policy.

The government unveiled 11.7 trillion won (US$9.4bil) worth of supplementary budget plan, which was passed through the parliament early this week, after having taken comprehensive steps worth 20 trillion won (US$16.1bil) since early February to support quarantine efforts and business operations.

South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who has ordered an "unprecedented" action in response to an "unprecedented" situation, chaired the first "emergency economic council" meeting on Thursday, announcing a plan to offer 50 trillion won (US$40bil) of emergency financial aid package for small businesses, microbusiness owners and the self-employed.






South Korea braces for economic woes as Covid-19 cases soar
ASEAN+
Monday, 24 Feb 2020

10:56 AM MYT
People waiting in a line to buy masks at a market in Daegu, South Korea, on Feb 24, 2020. - Yonhap

SEOUL (Bloomberg): South Korea warned that its fragile economic recovery is under threat from the coronavirus that has spread dramatically across the country over the past week, and pledged action to minimise the fallout.

The epidemic poses a "large concern that it will limit the trend of economic recovery started late last year", First Vice-Minister Kim Yong-beom said on Monday (Feb 24), according to the Finance Ministry. He cited a drop in domestic consumption and exports to China, among other impacts.

The number of infections in South Korea soared from just over 30 to more than 760 in the past week, with the virus claiming the lives of at least seven people so far.

The spike has led President Moon Jae-in to raise the country's infectious disease alert to the highest level for the first time since 2009, allowing the government to restrict public activities.

The Bank of Korea has convened an emergency meeting for Monday afternoon to discuss the virus impact, with an increasing number of economists convinced the bank will cut its benchmark interest rate at its regularly scheduled meeting on Thursday.

The government is reviewing all possible measures, including an extra budget, local media cited Vice-Minister Kim as saying.

South Korea's economy tends to be impacted quickly by global events due to its reliance on trade, especially with China. - Bloomberg






South Korea 'all out' to contain virus outbreak, vows to stabilize market
World
Tuesday, 28 Jan 2020

8:09 AM MYT
Employees from a disinfection service company sanitize the floor of Incheon International Airport in Incheon, South Korea, January 24, 2020. Yonhap via REUTERS

SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea on Tuesday said it was going "all out" to contain the outbreak of the spreading coronavirus and vowed to stabilize financial markets should volatilities worsen as it confirmed the fourth case of the China-linked virus.

"The government will be all out to protect citizens and minimize its impact on the economy," Finance Minister Hong Nam-ki said in a policy meeting in Seoul.

Hong said the government will fund efforts to contain the virus using the emergency fund from the existing budget, including 20.8 billion won ($17.8 million) set aside for anti-epidemic measures.

South Korea in 2015 drew up a supplementary budget to help the economy cope with the effects of the outbreak of the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS).

The virus, originating in the Chinese central city of Wuhan at the end of last year, has spread to the United States, Japan, Canada, France and Germany among others. It has killed at least 81 people.

(Reporting by Joori Roh and Cynthia Kim; Editing by Sandra Maler)






South Korea's March exports rise as virus drives teleconference demand
Economy
Monday, 23 Mar 2020

9:27 AM MYT
Outbound shipments of semiconductors, the nation's major export, jumped 20.3% on-year, the Korea Customs Service data showed on Monday, better than a 15.4% rise seen a month earlier.

SEOUL :South Korean exports rose 10.0% in the first 20 days of March year-on-year as the lockdowns across the world to prevent the coronavirus spread fuelled demand for teleconferencing technology and components.

Outbound shipments of semiconductors, the nation's major export, jumped 20.3% on-year, the Korea Customs Service data showed on Monday, better than a 15.4% rise seen a month earlier.

"Demand from cloud computing firms have boosted sales of server chips, while an increase in telecommuting in the United States and China has also been a main drive to huge server demand," a trade ministry official told Reuters.

"But exports in April and May will worsen," the official added, reflecting the significant fall in exporting contracts seen from February.

Chip giant Samsung Electronics said last week the pandemic would hurt sales of smartphones and consumer electronics this year, although the chip market - which makes up about half of Samsung's operating profit - would see demand growth.

Average exports per working day slid 0.4% during the period when eliminating the calendar effect, slower than a 9.3% decrease in Feb. 1-20 period. There were 1.5 more working days in the first 20 days of this month compared with the same period last year.

The fast-spreading virus has triggered a shutdown in factories across the globe, disrupting manufacturing and global supply chains.

More than 305,000 people have been infected by the novel coronavirus across the world and more than 13,000 have died, with deaths in Italy surpassing the toll in China, where the outbreak began, according to a Reuters tally.

South Korea reported 98 new infections on Sunday, raising the national tally to 8,897.

A breakdown of the trade data also showed overseas sales of cars and smartphones rose 13.7% and 26.6%, respectively. Exports of vessels have tumbled 49.6%.

Exports to China, South Korea's largest trading partner which takes in a quarter of total overseas sales, rose 4.9% on-year in the 20-day period, while those to the United States and the European Union jumped 27.2% and 13.5%, respectively.

Last week, the Bank of Korea slashed interest rates by 50 basis points to a fresh record-low of 0.75% in an emergency move, joining other central banks in their push to cushion the economic fallout from the pandemic.

The parliament also approved a 11.7 trillion won ($9.15 billion) extra budget last week, while the government declared the hardest hit provinces "special disaster zones" that will get subsidies and tax exemptions. - Reuters