State-run Mega Financial Holding Co aims to grow its core businesses this year, despite an increasingly unfavorable operating environment caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and aggressive rate cuts by central banks around the world, top-ranking executives said yesterday.

The company seeks to improve its profitability by increasing fee incomes and cross-selling effects at different units, as well as deepening cooperation with other state-run financial institutions, Mega Financial president David Hu told an online conference with investors.

The efforts are expected to boost revenue by 9.31 percent annually, Hu said.

The company reported that net profit rose 3.1 percent to NT$28.96 billion (US$955.52 million) last year, or earnings per share of NT$2.13, as investment and trading incomes soared 64 percent to NT$17.73 billion, which more than offset the slowdown in interest and fee incomes, Hu said.

Mega International Commercial Bank president Robert Tsai  said that the pandemic has so far had little impact on its lending operation or asset quality as most clients are large corporations with sufficient liquidity.

Efforts in the past few years to prevent money-laundering helped strengthen asset quality, Tsai said, adding that Mega Bank also lowered its exposure to China amid US-China trade tensions to rein in risks.

However, Mega Bank in February increased its provision costs by NT$500 million for taking part in a troubled syndicated loan to Powtec ElectroChemical Corp, which filed for bankruptcy.

The lender has the greatest exposure to Powtec at NT$2 billion, compared with other state-run banks.

Mega Financial in the first two months of this year generated NT$3.49 billion in net income, or earnings of NT$0.26 per share.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.






Taiwan Business Quick Take
Staff writer, with CNA

EQUITIES

TAIEX down due to festival

Local equities moved lower yesterday to close below 9,700 points, as investors grew more cautious about the spread of COVID-19 during the four-day Tomb Sweeping Day weekend that begins today. The TAIEX ended down 44.43 points, or 0.46 percent, at the day’s low of 9,663.63. Turnover totaled NT$117.37 billion (US$3.67 billion) during the session, Taiwan Stock Exchange data showed. Foreign institutional investors sold a net NT$4.71 billion of shares on the main board, compared with a net sell of NT$5.81 billion on Tuesday, the data showed. This week, the TAIEX fell 35.29 points, or 0.36 percent, from the closing level of 9,698.92 on Friday last week, the data showed.

ENERGY

CPC cuts LPG, LNG prices

State-run oil refiner CPC Corp, Taiwan (CPC) yesterday announced price cuts for liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG) for this month. Effective today, prices of household LPG are to drop by NT$5 per kilogram, which is expected to reduce the price of a 20kg gas cylinder by NT$100, the company said. An identical reduction is also to apply to industrial-use propane, butane and propane-butane mixture, while the price of LPG used in vehicles is to fall by NT$2.7 per liter. The average price of LNG is to decline 5.03 percent from last month. The price cut translates into a decreased cost of NT$14.7 to NT$22.05 for households that use 30m3 to 45m3 of LNG per month respectively, CPC said, attributing the price cuts to a decline in international contract prices of LPG.

FINANCIAL REPORTS

Listed firms’ revenue falls

Companies listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange reported total revenue of NT$32.72 trillion for last year, down 0.68 percent from a year earlier, while aggregate pretax profit decreased 9.01 percent year-on-year to NT$2.38 trillion. The exchange said that 936 listed firms met Tuesday’s deadline to report their results, with the banking and insurance, cement, and computer and peripheral sectors serving as major drivers for listed firms’ profit growth last year. Meanwhile, plastics, semiconductor and optoelectronic companies were the major sectors that reported lower profits for last year, it said. The Financial Supervisory Commission yesterday fined LED firm Unity Opto Technology Co NT$240,000 for failing to submit its financial statement by the deadline.

MACHINERY

Quaser shares down 6.25%

Shares of Quaser Machine Tools Inc yesterday fell as much as 8 percent in Taipei trading after the Chinese-language Economic Daily News reported that the company would cut about 40 jobs in Taiwan due to the pandemic, before closing at NT$30.75, down 6.25 percent. In a regulatory filing, Quaser confirmed the job cuts and said that its European clients have postponed some orders amid the outbreak. The company said the job cuts would have a limited effect on its operations and that it expects orders to increase after the pandemic is brought under control. Quaser reported revenue of NT$1.92 billion for last year, down 5.14 percent year-on-year, with net losses of NT$90.83 million, or net losses per share of NT$2.23. In September last year, Quaser received the Investment Commission’s approval to invest US$635 million in Winbro Group UK Ltd to tap into the world’s aviation and industrial turbine generator sectors.






[Image: Cabinet passes economic relief plan to boost Taiwan's economy April 2.  ]  
Cabinet passes economic relief plan to boost Taiwan's economy April 2.    Cabinet passes economic relief plan to boost Taiwan's economy April 2.    (CNA photo)

TAIPEI (Taiwan News) — In an effort to minimize the impact of the Wuhan coronavirus (COVID-19) on Taiwan's economy, the Cabinet on Thursday (April 2) passed an NT$1.05 trillion (US$34.7 billion) emergency economic relief package.

Following a Cabinet meeting Thursday morning, Premier Su Tseng-chang told reporters that the stimulus plan would provide significant funds to Taiwanese businesses severely affected by the virus outbreak. He pointed out that the global number of coronavirus infections has surpassed 900,000 and that Taiwan needs the emergency package for continuous, timely responses.

According to the Liberty Times, the updated relief budget would not only include the original NT$60 billion allotment, but also an additional NT$250 billion requested by a special budget appeal, NT$40 billion sourced from government budgets and funds, and NT$700 billion in loans from government-owned banks and financial institutions.

Su said the government had decided to increase funding to NT$1.05 trillion, which would more accurately reflect the nature of the ongoing crisis than the NT$60 billion bailout budget previously proposed by the Cabinet. He explained that the impact of the outbreak in February was initially mostly limited to China but that now, more than 200 countries, including the U.S. and Europe, have been devastated by the disease, reported CNA.






Taipei, March 19 (CNA) The management committee of Taiwan's National Financial Stabilization Fund determined Thursday that the legally-defined conditions for its intervention in Taiwan's financial markets have been met, allowing a possible injection of funds as soon as Friday.

The Executive Yuan announced the authorization at an evening press conference attended by Cabinet spokesperson Kolas Yotaka, Finance Minister Su Jain-rong and Juan Ching-hwa , the fund's executive secretary.

The move follows several days of turmoil on international stock markets, which have suffered amid the growing economic fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic.

In the United States Wednesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell by 1,338 points, or 6.30 percent, dropping below 20,000 for the first time in three years. The Nasdaq Composite fell 4.7 percent, while trade on the S&P 500 index was briefly halted due to steep declines, before closing down 5.18 percent.

On the Taiwan Stock Exchange (TWSE), meanwhile, shares plummeted 300 points at start of trade Thursday and finished down 537.33 points, or 5.83 percent, at 8,681.34.

Su said the authorization would give the fund flexibility to act, and increase investor confidence, amid a week in which the TWSE has seen steeper declines that many of its international counterparts, and efforts to stop the spread of the coronavirus have struggled in both Europe and the Americas.

In just one month the TWSE has fallen more than 26 percent from a high of 11,6758 points on Feb. 19.

Although the TWSE lost more than 500 points on Thursday, turnover remained solid at NT$270 billion (US$8.86 billion), Su said, adding that the fund nevertheless needs to make preparations, given the current market volatility.

The stabilization fund has utilizable funds of NT$500 billion, NT$200 billion of which consists of stock held by the National Treasury. In the past, it has used NT$120 billion of those funds, most recently during a 2015-2016 intervention valued at NT$19 billion, he said.

The fund's other NT$300 billion is comprised of borrowings from Taiwan's four major public funds -- the Postal Life Insurance Fund, Labor Insurance Fund, Labor Pension Fund and Civil Servant Fund, as well as the Postal Deposit System -- according to its operational charter.

In practical terms, Juan said the fund is operated by a professional team at the Bank of Taiwan, who decide when to stage an intervention based on their professional judgment, rather than specific quantitative standards.

It's not like the media says, that they intervene when markets hit a ten-year low, he said, explaining that overall market conditions, the imposition of trading curbs, and irrational investment behavior are all factors that inform the decision.






Taipei, March 12 (CNA) Central Bank Governor Yang Chin-long said on Thursday that he sees little chance of a financial crisis being triggered by the coronavirus disease COVID-19, which has been declared a global pandemic by the World Health organization.

Speaking during a hearing at the legislative Financial Committee, Yang said "I think the likelihood of such a financial crisis is slim, judging from the information I have received so far."

Yang made the comments when answering questions from opposition Kuomingtang (KMT) lawmaker Tseng Ming-chung , who asked whether a COVID-related financial crisis was possible this year after similar crises in 1998 and 2008.

The remarks came one day after European Central Bank (ECB) President Christine Lagarde reportedly told European Union (EU) leaders that ECB policy makers would look at all policy tools at their meeting this week to provide "super-cheap" funding.

A person familiar with her comments was citied as saying that Lagarde warned EU leaders that "without coordinated action on the coronavirus outbreak Europe would see a scenario that would remind it of the 2008 financial crisis," according to Reuters.

Despite Yang's relative calmness, the central bank pointed out in its business report that as the coronavirus has rapidly spread from China to nearly 100 countries, its impact is expected to exceed that of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in 2003 because of China's current importance as a world economic powerhouse.

The report also identifies Italy, Iran, South Korea, Japan, and the United States as the countries most affected by the contagious disease.

China now plays a key role in the global component supply chains, and disruptions in its supply or a slowdown in its demand will definitely create a far greater spill-over effect in the world economy, the report added.

On the same occasion, the central bank chief also said that Taiwan could be named as a currency manipulator in April by the U.S. Department of Treasury if it sticks to past criteria.

On Jan. 13, the U.S. Treasury Department delivered to Congress the semi-annual Report on Macroeconomic and Foreign Exchange Policies of Major Trading Partners of the United States, in which it reviewed and assessed the policies of 20 major trading partners of the U.S.

In the report, China was removed from the category of currency manipulator, though remained on the monitoring list alongside 10 other countries including Germany, Italy, Japan, Singapore and South Korea. Taiwan was not on the list.







