[Image: Thisanka Siripala]  
By Thisanka Siripala  for The Diplomat   
March 21, 2020 
[Image: Japan Mulling Additional Coronavirus Economic Rescue Measures]  
Credit: Pixabay  Advertisement
As global travel restrictions coupled with voluntary shutdown and self-isolation advice grip society, Japan’s restaurants, hotels, and taxi operators – those on the frontline of declining tourism — face a sense of crisis.

In February, the number of foreign tourists entering Japan plummeted by 58 percent to 1.09 million, the lowest figure recorded since the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake when tourist arrivals fell 62.5 percent.

Widespread domestic and international flight cancellations have forced Japan-based airlines to brace for a projected revenue loss of $2.8 billion between February and April. A fall in inbound tourism has had a ripple effect on major department stores and new car sales, which fell more than 10 percent in February from the previous year.

The Japanese government will lay the groundwork for an additional economic stimulus package after forming a panel of economists and business leaders to help mitigate the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Discussions are expected to take place almost daily with fresh measures finalized in April. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said the government’s priority is maintaining employment and business continuity, promising to take “drastic measures to put the Japanese economy back on a steady growth path.”

In mid-February the first phase of emergency measures featured 500 billion yen ($4.5 billion) in low-interest, collateral-free emergency loans aimed toward struggling small- to medium-sized businesses in the tourism industry. The government’s newly launched finance consultation service reported that 90 percent of calls came from small and medium business from a range of sectors who described having only a month’s worth of cash left. The second round of stimulus, announced on March 10, expanded financing support to other virus-hit sectors such as hospitality and manufacturing.

Enjoying this article? Click here to subscribe for full access. Just $5 a month.

The coronavirus pandemic has caught the world’s third largest economy as it struggles to bounce back from an unpopular 2 percent sales tax hike in October as well as the damage from Typhoon Hagibis — the strongest typhoon to strike Japan in decades. During October and December, the economy shrunk at an annualized rate of 7.1 percent from the previous quarter as destructive flooding and strong winds caused $10 billion in insured losses.

Abe has also pledged support to parents taking a break from work to look after their children during school closures, offering a daily subsidy of 4,100 yen while also calling for utility payments to be deferred for one month for low income households.

Proposals for direct household incentives such as cash payouts or reversing the sales tax are being considered, but Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso has raised doubts on the effectiveness of handing out cash and ruled out lowering the consumption sales tax.






Tokyo lockdown would have 'huge' impact on economy: Nishimura
Monday, March 30, 2020 10:20 p.m. EDT by Thomson Reuters 
[Image: FILE PHOTO: Japan's Vice Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura speaks during the Reuters Japan Investment Summit in Tokyo May 19, 2014. REUTE]  
FILE PHOTO: Japan's Vice Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura speaks during the Reuters Japan Investment Summit in Tokyo May 19, 2014. REUTE
TOKYO (Reuters) - A lockdown of major Japanese cities like Tokyo and Osaka to halt the spread of the coronavirus would have a "huge" impact on the economy, Yasutoshi Nishimura, the country's economy minister, said on Tuesday.

Nishimura also said Japan was not a situation now where it needed to declare a state of emergency and the government would consider if it needed to so "comprehensively".






Tokyo stocks tank, yen surges on coronavirus fears, oil crash
[Image: KYODO NEWS]   By Su Xincheng, KYODO NEWS - Mar 9, 2020 - 16:44 | All, Japan, Coronavirus

Tokyo financial markets were rattled Monday by escalating coronavirus fears and plunging oil prices, with the Nikkei ending at a 14-month low and the dollar briefly diving to the mid-101 yen level, its lowest since November 2016.

Oil refiners and trading houses were hit by a sharp fall in crude futures on reports that Saudi Arabia plans to boost oil output after the collapse of Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries production limit talks with Russia.

Export-related issues were also battered on the yen's sharp rise against the dollar.

The 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average ended down 1,050.99 points, or 5.07 percent, from Friday at 19,698.76, its lowest close since Jan. 4, 2019. The broader Topix index of all First Section issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange finished 82.49 points, or 5.61 percent, lower at 1,388.97.

Every industry category lost ground, led by mining, oil and coal product, and bank issues.

As part of a global market rout, panicked investors in Tokyo unloaded shares and sought perceived safe-haven assets such as the yen and government bonds after the West Texas Intermediate crude futures benchmark for April plunged to $27 per barrel in after-hours trading in New York on Monday, a level not seen in about four years.

Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso on Monday stressed the need to closely monitor market moves but declined to comment on the possibility of Japan stepping into the foreign exchange market to stem the yen's rise.

"Concerns grew that the plunging oil prices will force energy-related companies to post losses" as fears of a global economic slowdown caused by the coronavirus' spread have seen demand for fuel fall sharply, said Makoto Sengoku, a market analyst at the Tokai Tokyo Research Institute.

"The negative effects of the oil crash hit the market more seriously than the virus," he added.

The Italian government ordered Sunday a large-scale lockdown in the northern part of the country, including Milan, as infection cases in the country surged to over 7,300. The situation also worsened in the United States, with New York state declaring a state of emergency.

"Due to the big falls in oil prices in combination with the virus concerns, the dollar could further fall 2 or 3 yen," said Takuya Kanda, senior researcher at the Gaitame.com Research Institute.

On the First Section, declining issues outnumbered advancers 2,138 to 22, while three ended unchanged.

Oil refiner JXTG plunged 33.50 yen, or 8.2 percent, to 374.00 yen and Japan Petroleum Exploration tumbled 287 yen, or 12.7 percent, to 1,974 yen.

Among trading houses, Mitsubishi shed 128.50 yen, or 4.9 percent, to 2,471.50 yen and Mitsui slid 120.50 yen, or 6.9 percent, to 1,617.00 yen.

Export-related issues such as automakers were hit by the stronger yen, which cuts their overseas profits when repatriated.

Toyota Motor dropped 299 yen, or 4.4 percent, to 6,495 yen, Honda Motor sagged 191.00 yen, or 7.1 percent, to 2,496.50 yen and Nissan Motor slid 34.90 yen, or 8.2 percent, to 389.20 yen.

Trading volume on the main section rose to 2,518.47 million shares from Friday's 1,749.64 million shares.






Tokyo 2020 latest: ¥7.8tn cancellation hit estimated, venues completed, NHK plans 8K coverage, and more
Kevin McCullagh 
March 9, 2020
(Credit: Getty Images)

A report by Japanese financial firm SMBC Nikko Securities has estimated that Japan’s gross domestic product would be reduced by 1.4 per cent, equivalent to ¥7.8tn ($75bn), if the Tokyo Olympics was cancelled.

Kyodo News reported that the company said Tokyo 2020 should be responsible for creating a large amount of demand in the economy, including about ¥670bn from spectator consumption and the staging of sports events.

Under one scenario presented in the report, the epidemic continues until July, the Olympics is cancelled, and Japanese corporate revenues fall 24.4 per cent this year. Under a more optimistic scenario, the spread of the coronavirus ends in April, the Olympics is held as scheduled, but corporate revenues are still down 14.9 per cent, and GDP down 0.9 per cent.

Other Tokyo 2020 news:
The Games’ organisers announced that the construction of the new, permanent venues for the Games had been completed at the end of February. The Tokyo Aquatics Centre, for swimming and diving competitions, was the last to be completed. The 15,000-seat venue features a movable wall allowing the 50-metre pool to be converted to two 25-metre pools, and the depth of the pool can also be adjusted.

Japanese public-service broadcaster NHK announced it will cover 11 Tokyo 2020 events in the high-resolution 8K image format. There will be 8K transmissions on every day of the games. The events covered will include the opening and closing ceremonies, swimming, football, judo, and athletics at the Olympics, and the opening and closing ceremonies, swimming, and athletics at the Paralympics. The coverage will also include the first attempt to broadcast 8K video live from a helicopter, during the Olympics and Paralympics opening ceremonies.

The Tokyo 2020 organising committee announced plans to downsize the arrival ceremony in Japan for the Olympic torch, due to the coronavirus. A plan to send 140 children to Greece to give the flame a send-off has been cancelled.






Bank of Japan to downgrade economic view at policy meeting: sources
March 12, 2020 (Mainichi Japan)

 
Bank of Japan Gov. Haruhiko Kuroda speaks to reporters after a meeting with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in Tokyo on March 12, 2020. (Kyodo)
TOKYO (Kyodo) -- The Bank of Japan is considering downgrading its assessment of the country's economy at its upcoming policy meeting next week in view of the deepening economic impact of the globally spreading new coronavirus, sources close to the matter said Thursday.


The BOJ is expected to revise its view that the Japanese economy is on a moderate expanding trend, an expression it has been using since March 2017, in a statement to be issued after the two-day policy-setting meeting starting Wednesday after assessing such recent developments as a sharp fall in the number of inbound tourists and declined exports to China, the sources said.


The central bank is now expected to say the recovery has slowed, the sources said. The BOJ said in a statement released after the January policy meeting that the country's economy "is likely to continue on an expanding trend" through fiscal 2021, supported by government stimulus.


However, the spread of the epidemic took a heavy toll on consumer spending recently, as many businesses such as department stores, already hit by a consumption tax hike to 10 percent from 8 percent on Oct. 1, suffered a steep sales fall for the fourth consecutive month through February. Japan's recent ban on entry of South Korean and Chinese travelers is likely to deal an even more severe blow to tourism and retail industries among others through March.


A government survey showed Thursday that business sentiment among large companies in the January to March period fell to the lowest level in five years and nine months due largely to the coronavirus fallout.


Earlier in the day, BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda met with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to discuss responses to the global market turmoil.


Though details of discussions between Kuroda and Abe, held at the prime minister's office, are not known, Kuroda told reporters after the meeting, "We will not hesitate to take appropriate measures in a timely manner whenever needed," including further monetary easing.


Their meeting followed a tumble for stock markets in Japan and the rest of Asia after the World Health Organization labeled the outbreak of the virus a global pandemic, and the United States banned the entry of travelers from Europe, except Britain, for 30 days from Friday.


Kuroda said the central bank will take necessary actions as promised in its rare emergency statement issued last week, which pledged to provide ample liquidity to ensure financial market stability.


At a regularly scheduled two-day policy meeting from Wednesday, the BOJ is expected to discuss the possibility of further monetary easing steps including a plan to buy more exchange-traded funds by lifting the annual target of 6 trillion yen ($57 billion).







